V0.5.1 (#267)
paritytech/substrate-archive: RELEASE-CHECKLIST.md

# Releasing `substrate-archive`

Here's how to make a new release of `substrate-archive`.

## Checklist

1. Make a new branch, name it whatever you want, but `vx.y.z-prep` is a good template
1. Update `Cargo.toml` in `substrate-archive` and `substrate-archive-backend` with the new version number.
1. Update all references to `substrate` crates and `polkadot` to their respective latest releases.
1. Update the `CHANGELOG` as specified [here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
1. Run all tests: `TEST_DATABASE_URL="postgres://localhost:5432/archive cargo test --all`.
1. Push the PR against the `release` branch.
1. Once reviewed, merge it to `release`.
1. Tag the `release` branch` with `git tag vx.y.z` and push the tags with `git push --tags`
1. Build a binary for debian, compatible with the current glibc version (`v1.2.3`)

>     1. TODO: step 1

Reviewer: This is super manual and can be automated; I came across this: https://github.com/softprops/action-gh-release but it will take some playing around with to get working properly I think. But that would make releases way more streamlined

# Releasing `substrate-archive`

Here's how to make a new release of `substrate-archive`.

## Checklist

1. Make a new branch, name it whatever you want, but `vx.y.z-prep` is a good template
1. Update `Cargo.toml` in `substrate-archive` and `substrate-archive-backend` with the new version number.
1. Update all references to `substrate` crates and `polkadot` to their respective latest releases.
1. Update the `CHANGELOG` as specified [here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
1. Run all tests: `TEST_DATABASE_URL="postgres://localhost:5432/archive cargo test --all`.
1. Push the PR against the `release` branch.
1. Once reviewed, merge it to `release`.
1. Tag the `release` branch` with `git tag vx.y.z` and push the tags with `git push --tags`
1. Build a binary for debian, compatible with the current glibc version (`v2.31`)
    1. `docker run --rm -it debian:jessie`

>     1. install required dependencies `apt-get update && apt-get install git curl gcc clang`

Author: We need both clang and gcc?

Author: Isn't there a "always say yes" flag to be added here?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. install required dependencies `apt-get update && apt-get -y install git curl gcc clang`
```

& yeah we need clang for librocksdb

Author: Right, but what do we need gcc for then?

>     1. install rust from rustup.rs: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`

Author: ```suggestion
    1. install rust from rustup.rs: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`
    1. reload the shell: `source $HOME/.cargo/env`
```

>     1. build archive: `git clone https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-archive.git && cd substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive && SKIP_WASM_BUILD=1 cargo build --release`

Author: ```suggestion
    1. build archive: `git clone https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-archive.git --branch release --single-branch && cd substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive && SKIP_WASM_BUILD=1 cargo build --release`
```

Author: The build fails for me, I get:

```
error: could not compile `polkadot-service`

Caused by:
  process didn't exit successfully: <LOOOONG COMMAND HERE> (signal: 9, SIGKILL: kill)
```

Not sure what's up with that, OOM killer?

Reviewer 2: yeah, you ran out of RAM most likely :)

# Releasing `substrate-archive`

Here's how to make a new release of `substrate-archive`.

## Checklist

1. Make a new branch, name it whatever you want, but `vx.y.z-prep` is a good template
1. Update `Cargo.toml` in `substrate-archive` and `substrate-archive-backend` with the new version number.
1. Update all references to `substrate` crates and `polkadot` to their respective latest releases.
1. Update the `CHANGELOG` as specified [here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
1. Run all tests: `TEST_DATABASE_URL="postgres://localhost:5432/archive cargo test --all`.
1. Push the PR against the `release` branch.
1. Once reviewed, merge it to `release`.
1. Tag the `release` branch` with `git tag vx.y.z` and push the tags with `git push --tags`
1. Build a binary for debian, compatible with the current glibc version (`v2.31`)
    1. `docker run --rm -it debian:jessie`
    1. install required dependencies `apt-get update && apt-get -y install git curl gcc clang`

>     1. install rust from rustup.rs: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`

Author: ```suggestion
    1. install rust from rustup.rs: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y`
```

    1. reload the shell: `source $HOME/.cargo/env`
    1. build archive: `git clone https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-archive.git --branch release --single-branch && cd substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive && SKIP_WASM_BUILD=1 cargo build --release`
    1. keeping the container running, in a another terminal find the id of the docker container with `docker ps -a`, copy the binary to host with `docker cp $YOUR_CONTAINER_ID:/substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive/target/release/polkadot-archive .`

> 1. Signal the new release to devop for deployment

Author: ```suggestion
1. Signal the new release to devops for deployment
```

> 1. Signal the new release to devops for deployment

Author: ```suggestion
1. Prepare a new release in the github UI
```

# Releasing `substrate-archive`

Here's how to make a new release of `substrate-archive`.

## Checklist

1. Make a new branch, name it whatever you want, but `vx.y.z-prep` is a good template
1. Update `Cargo.toml` in `substrate-archive` and `substrate-archive-backend` with the new version number.
1. Update all references to `substrate` crates and `polkadot` to their respective latest releases.
1. Update the `CHANGELOG` as specified [here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).

> 1. Run all tests: `TEST_DATABASE_URL="postgres://localhost:5432/archive cargo test --all`.

Reviewer 3: Do we assume the maintainer knows what is going on here with setting up the postgres DB?

Reviewer 2: yeah, there's a wiki for that https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-archive/wiki/3.)-Configuring-Postgres-for-Archive

but maybe add a link to that or something

1. Push the PR against the `release` branch.
1. Once reviewed, merge it to `release`.
1. Tag the `release` branch` with `git tag vx.y.z` and push the tags with `git push --tags`

> 1. Build a binary for debian, compatible with the current glibc version (`v2.31`)

Reviewer 3: Should there be a bash script or Dockerfile for this?

Author: That would be good yes. Not today though. :)

Reviewer: I'm looking into automating the binary creation with GHActions rather than a Dockerfile, as to avoid manually setting up containerization for every release

    1. `docker run --rm -it debian:jessie` (requires at least 8Gb RAM)
    1. install required dependencies `apt-get update && apt-get -y install git curl gcc clang`
    1. install rust from rustup.rs: `curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y`
    1. reload the shell: `source $HOME/.cargo/env`
    1. build archive: `git clone https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-archive.git --branch release --single-branch && cd substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive && SKIP_WASM_BUILD=1 cargo build --release`
    1. keeping the container running, in a another terminal find the id of the docker container with `docker ps -a`, copy the binary to host with `docker cp $YOUR_CONTAINER_ID:/substrate-archive/bin/polkadot-archive/target/release/polkadot-archive .`
1. Prepare a new draft release in the github UI

>     1. Upload the new binary

Author: @insipx How about the source code, should I zip up this branch and upload it or should I wait until this branch is merged to `release` and tagged?

Reviewer: Once everything is tagged and this PR merged, publishing the release will automatically publish the zipped source for us

>     1. Tag the new release against the **release** branch

Reviewer 3: Not against the release commit on the master branch to make sure all the release stuff is approved (and release notes etc make it in)?

Reviewer: Right, we either have to sync the  branches or keep release notes & changelog only on the `release` branch. Since releasing now consists of changing all the Cargo tags to frozen substrate versions which is different than the versions on master.

So I think we have to split this into two PR's:
- one that adds the release checklist & changelog updates
- the other that updates the `release` branch with the right substrate versions

we would have to do this on every release too I think -- IE update changelog in one PR and then sync up `release` in the next. 

Another option is just keeping the Changelog & Release checklist only on the `release` branch. If we do that, though, we should definitely put that in the `README` somewhere because it could be confusing for anyone looking for the changelog.

Author: I was thinking I'd make a new PR to `master` with the release checklist and changelog updates. 

The next release would branch off of the `release` branch and merge `master` into it, then merge back to `release` I presume?

Reviewer: Yes, that's how it would have to work I think
